# Make a join and/or leave message in Roblox Studio

This is a quick write-up about a year after I made the video (and after I abandoned the channel) for anyone who's too lazy to watch a 5 minute video.

https://youtu.be/R9C5O4wZKGc

## The guide

**IMPORTANT** To start, make a LocalScript in the game.StarterPlayerScripts directory.

### Join Message

**IMPORTANT** To start, you should write the following code, it's a function that runs on when a player joins your game. We add a parameter called player, which Roblox automatically assigns to the player's object in game.Players.

```
game.Players.PlayerAdded:Connect(function(player)

end)
```

We then need to assign variables for various objects in the function. In the video, I assign quite a few, but not all of them are necessary to use.

I particularly assign these variables:

```
local display = player.DisplayName -- You could use player.Name if you'd rather not rely on someone's display name.
-- needed for if you want to use the notification in the corner, this is due to grabbing a person's headshot
local uid = player.UserId
local thumbtype = Enum.ThumbnailType.Headshot
local thumbsize = Enum.ThumbnailSize.Size420x420
local content, isready = game.Players:GetUserThumbnailAsync(uid, thumbtype, thumbsize)
```

After we assign these variables, I'm going to start with the chat message which only requires the first variable. Remember to keep this in the function if that isn't obvious.

Just to clarify a couple of things that may seem new, the double full stops are required after we use the display variable due to us adding some text to quotes next to it.

The colour is fully customizable, I chose white but you should use any colour that fits in the best.

For font, remember to use an Enum.Font value as well.

```
game.StarterGui:SetCore("ChatMakeSystemMessage", {Text = display .. " has joined the game!", Color = Color3.fromRGB(255,255,255), Font = Enum.Font.Gotham})
```

For the notification, we're going to need all of the functions we assigned earlier. Obviously, you could choose not to do this, since you don't have to do this. Like last time, you should obviously keep this in the function.

The duration I set was 5 seconds, but you might want this notification to appear for longer, and the icon uses the headshot that we got with our variables earlier.

```
game.StarterGui:SetCore("SendNotification", {Title = "Welcome!", Text = display .. " has joined the game!", Icon = content, Duration = 5})
```

### Leave Message

Same as joining, but PlayerAdded should be replaced with PlayerRemoving, and you should obviously change various pieces of text to make it clear a player is leaving, **NOT** joining.
